fsmMBT Readme
======

Finite State Machine - Model Based Testing

This is code that I wrote in c# to automatically generate watir tests for a web app. I'm putting this on github for safe-keeping and to someday
add to this.  I'm now working with python and selenium, so the first order of business will be to port this code. 

The webapp no longer exists.

Files:
======
newFSM.cs: this file uses the class XMLStateMachine to initialize a project specific Finite State Machine for my project. 
The code for XMLStateMachine is available online: http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/2063/XML-Finite-State-Machine-in-C

sbcDemo.xml: this is the finite state machine model for this project. Each state has:
- name: that describes the state
- validString: a unique string that only appears on the page that corresponds to the state. The "oracle" for test success, when in this state, the text in the "validstring" is found
- transition: one or more next states  (name of the state) and an identifier for the link to follow to reach the new state


SBCDemo.cs: This is the c# code which generates ruby/watir code to implement the tests. It has a loop to randomly walk through the finite state machine x number of times (25 times in this demo).
Each test is created by randomly selecting from teh available transistions, send a "click" to the link specificed in the transistion, wait, then search for the text in the "verifystring"
If the verifystring is found, the test is considered passed, and if not failed. 
This code is pretty hacky, but did the job for the demo. I had changed the loop to 2500 at times. 

Original Readme: 
SBC MBT Demo
============

This application shows a demonstration of model based testing applied to the SBConnect portal. The test starts with a behavioral model of the SBConnect portal, randomly walks through the model to create 25 test cases. Each test case is implemented in a WATIR script - for automatic test generation.
Requirements to run:
Ruby and WATIR must be installed for this demo to work. The WATIR tutorial provides links to the installation binaries for Ruby and for WATIR:  http://wtr.rubyforge.org/watir_user_guide.html
Ruby is an interpreted, object oriented language that is growing in the testing community.  WATIR stands for Web Application Testing in Ruby – is implemented in Ruby and allows interaction with web applications by driving Internet Explorer.  WATIR works by interacting with the HTML code on a web page through Microsoft’s Document Object Model.  Since it interacts with HTML, WATIR does not test ActiveX, java applets or Flash.  

How to run:
The included watirtest.rb file will run 25 test cases. Once Ruby and WATIR are installed, you can run watirtest.rb at the command line:
C:\<your path>\watirtest.rb
This will open Internet Explorer in the SBConnect portal and start interacting by logging in (or attempting an invalid password), and navigating between 3 of the portals.  There are 25 test cases that are automatically generated by randomly walking through the model.
The model is located in sbcDemo.xml.   This file represents a finite state machine of the behavior of the SBConnect portal. The first state: login has 2 transitions: valid password or invalid.  If a valid password, then we transition to the home state. From home, we can logout, stay at home, or navigate to the other portals.   The validstring is a unique text string that exists on the given page. The test cases are generated to 1) navigate to the next state (selected randomly), and 2) verify the application behaved properly by verifying that string is present on the resulting page.
To create a new test scenario:
C:\<your path>\StateTableModel > newtest.rb
C:\<your path>\newtest.rb
This will randomly walk through the sbcDemo.xml again, creating 25 more tests.  

Open watirtest.rb and newtest.rb to see the difference. 

